add doc for migrating parquet files (#13449)
pingcap/docs: migrate-from-parquet-files-to-tidb.md

---
title: Migrate Data from Parquet Files to TiDB
summary: Learn how to migrate data from parquet files to TiDB.
---

# Migrate Data from Parquet Files to TiDB

This document describes how to generate parquet files from Apache Hive and how to migrate data from parquet files to TiDB using TiDB Lightning.

> If you export parquet files from Amazon Aurora, refer to [Migrate Data from Amazon Aurora to TiDB](/migrate-aurora-to-tidb.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you export parquet files from Amazon Aurora, refer to [Migrate data from Amazon Aurora to TiDB](/migrate-aurora-to-tidb.md).
```

## Prerequisites

> - [Install TiDB Lightning](/migration-tools.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Install TiDB Lightning using TiUP](/migration-tools.md).
```

- [Get the target database privileges required for TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-faq.md#what-are-the-privilege-requirements-for-the-target-database).

## Step 1. Prepare the parquet files

This section describes how to export parquet files from Hive that can be read by TiDB Lightning.

> Each table in Hive can export table data to parquet files by annotating `STORED AS PARQUET LOCATION '/path/in/hdfs'`. Therefore, if you need to export a table named `test`, perform the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each table in Hive can be exported to parquet files by annotating `STORED AS PARQUET LOCATION '/path/in/hdfs'`. Therefore, if you need to export a table named `test`, perform the following steps:
```

> 1. Run the following SQL statement to create a table named `test`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the following SQL statement in Hive:
```

This statement creates a table `temp` to store data in test.

# Set the temporary storage directory for the sorted Key-Value files. The directory must be empty, and the storage space must be greater than the size of the dataset to be imported. For better import performance, it is recommended to use a directory different from `data-source-dir` and use flash storage, which can use I/O exclusively.
sorted-kv-dir = "${sorted-kv-dir}"

[mydumper]
# Directory of the data source.
data-source-dir = "${data-path}" # A local path or S3 path. For example, 's3://my-bucket/sql-backup'.

[tidb]
# The target cluster.
host = ${host}            # e.g.: 172.16.32.1
port = ${port}            # e.g.: 4000
user = "${user_name}"     # e.g.: "root"
password = "${password}"  # e.g.: "rootroot"
status-port = ${status-port} # During the import, TiDB Lightning needs to obtain the table schema information from the TiDB status port. e.g.: 10080
pd-addr = "${ip}:${port}" # The address of the PD cluster, e.g.: 172.16.31.3:2379. TiDB Lightning obtains some information from PD. When backend = "local", you must specify status-port and pd-addr correctly. Otherwise, the import will be abnormal.
```

> For more information on the configuration file, refer to [TiDB Lightning Configuration](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on the configuration file, refer to [TiDB Lightning configuration](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md).
```

## Step 4. Import the data

1. Run `tidb-lightning`.

    - If you import data from Amazon S3, you need to set the `SecretKey` and `AccessKey` of the account that has permission to access the S3 backend storage as environment variables before running TiDB Lightning.

        ```shell
        export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=${access_key}
        export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=${secret_key}
        ```

        In addition to the preceding method, TiDB Lightning also supports reading the credential file from `~/.aws/credentials`.

    - If you launch the program in the command line, the process might exit unexpectedly after receiving a `SIGHUP` signal. In this case, it is recommended to run the program using a `nohup` or `screen` tool. For example:

        ```shell
        nohup tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml > nohup.out 2>&1 &
        ```

2. After the import starts, you can check the progress of the import by either of the following methods:

    - Search for the keyword `progress` in the log using `grep`. The progress is updated every 5 minutes by default.

>     - Check progress in [the monitoring dashboard](/tidb-lightning/monitor-tidb-lightning.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Check progress in the [monitoring dashboard](/tidb-lightning/monitor-tidb-lightning.md).
```
